Parametric Caliber Configurator — Phase 1
28/10/2025

Phase 1: establish inputs and the core geometry engine for gears and centers.

Contents:
1) Data model (MovementParameters, Gear, Arbor, PlateConstraints)
2) Geometry helpers (pitch diameter, center distance, addendum, dedendum, tooth clearance)
3) Simple gear-train builder that computes center positions and basic collision checks

Phase 1.1 - Data Model
    P1.1 uses the dataclass and field from the data classes library to create two main classes
    a MovementParameters and Gear class. The resoning for using the dataclasses libray as oposed 
    to just making a regular class was that a dataclass oobject has auto generates some of the 
    boiler plate code like init and eq without cluttering up the code in the file.

Phase 1.2 - Geometry helpers
    p1.2 as the name implies is about programming various helper functions that would be needed 
    later on in the porject. 
    The current functions being computing the pitch diameter based on the tooth count and module 
    of the gear.
    The second vital function being computing the center distances between 2 gears. This is vital
     as it allows the program to work with the placing second gear function. It uses the 2 gears 
    diameters, gets the averge. 
    The final funtion place second gear takes the center distance, the angle between 
    the two gears and calculates the x,y cordinates of the 2nd gear

Phase 1.3 - collision detection
    P1.3 implements as simple overlap function using the coordingates of 2 gears as well as thier 
    radi. it simply checks if the center distance is greater than the sum of the radi and a clearance

Phase 1.4 - Gear Train Builder
    P1.4 implements a gear train class that holds a list of gears in addition to an increment angle.
    This phase also exapnds on the collision developed earlier by taking the current gear tain and 
    making a list of all collisions in the train. The gear train is made by running the compute centers 
    linear chian function. It places gears radially